After completing this activity, you will be able to:
* Identify the documentation describing how to get started as a contributor to a FOSS project
* Identify the documentation describing a FOSS project’s culture and community
* Become a member of a FOSS project

This activity assumes that you have been assigned a project to work on this semester. If that’s not the case, please speak with the Instructor right away!

Part 1. Learn about the project
-------------------------------
Your FOSS project should have a lot of documentation online that will help new contributors learn about the project and get up and running.

For each of the following, post the question/prompt and the answer to your blog. If you are working with another student, both of you should post the questions and responses.

1.  What is the URL of the project homepage? 
2.  What is the URL of the project code repo?
3.  What is the URL of the project contributor’s guide? That is, the document that describes how you can contribute code, etc. to the project
4.  What is the URL of the code convention and style guide?
5.  What is the URL that describes how to install/build the code?
6.  What is the URL of the project issue/bug tracker?
7.  What is the URL of the project roadmap? That is, the document that describes the features planned for upcoming releases

For all of these, if you cannot find an answer or there does not appear to be one, please ask the Instructor or TA for help!


Part 2. Learn about the community
---------------------------------
Your FOSS project will also likely have documentation regarding the community’s culture and preferred modes of communication.

As in Part 1, for each of the following, post the question/prompt and the answer to your blog. If you are working with another student, both of you should post the questions and responses.

1. What is the URL of the project wiki?
2. What is the URL describing how to become a member of the project community?
3. How do you register for the community mailing list?
4. What synchronous communication mechanism is used by members of the community? E.g., IRC, Google Hangout, Slack, etc. Provide as much detail as possible, e.g. channel name, URL, etc.
5. What is the URL describing the code of conduct and other related policies?
6. What is the URL for the transcript of the most recent developer’s meeting or group discussion?
7. When is the next scheduled developers’ meeting?

For all of these, if you cannot find an answer or there does not appear to be one, please ask the Instructor or TA for help!


Part 3. Reach out to and join the community
-------------------------------------------
Now that you’ve done some research about what information is available, you’re ready to join the community!

Before the end of today’s class meeting, show the Instructor or TA your blog post for Parts 1 and 2, and also demonstrate that you have done each of the following:
* joined the project community
* signed up for the mailing list
* sent an email to the mailing list introducing yourself (your name, the fact that you’re a student at Penn and are doing this for a course, etc.)
* forked the project repo

If time permits, try to install/build the source and set up your local development environment.


